[RFC] Implement semantic releasing (#2549)
Sage/carbon: rfcs/text/semantic-release.md

- Start Date: 2019-11-28

# Summary

We, the Carbon team, want to move to a continuous delivery approach. We have identified [`semantic-release`](https://github.com/semantic-release/semantic-release) as a suitable
choice.

# Basic example

https://semantic-release.gitbook.io/semantic-release/

# Motivation

The number of changes included between `v8` and `v9` were substantial. It has become difficult for users to upgrade due
to the number of changes. This is due to not releasing fast enough for the throughput of the team.

We want to release faster so users can receive features faster and make small incremental upgrades. This will make
breaking changes less of an issue for our consumers.

# Detailed design

We will use [`semantic-release`](https://github.com/semantic-release/semantic-release) to publish our package.
- we will release from `master`

> - every commit to `master` will trigger a release

Reviewer: Does really `every` commit to `master` trigger a release? According to the table with release types shown below it seems that not all commits trigger a release.

Author: Good spot. I'll update that.

- [`husky`](https://github.com/typicode/husky) will manage the git commit hooks defined in `package.json`
- we will write a hook that runs the commit message via [`commitlint`](https://github.com/conventional-changelog/commitlint)
- we will use the [`@commitlint/config-conventional`](https://github.com/conventional-changelog/commitlint/tree/master/%40commitlint/config-conventional) config
- [`husky`](https://github.com/typicode/husky) will abort the commit if the commit message is in the wrong format

We will use [`commitizen`](https://github.com/commitizen/cz-cli) to help write commit messages
- we will use the [`cz-conventional-changelog`](https://github.com/commitizen/cz-conventional-changelog) config
- users can choose to write commit messages with the regular `git` CLI or in their IDE still
- users can launch [`commitizen`](https://github.com/commitizen/cz-cli) with `npm run commit`

We will add [`probot/semantic-pull-requests`](https://probot.github.io/apps/semantic-pull-requests/) as a GitHub check.
This will prevent PR's being merged that do not follow the correct syntax.

## Reverting a Release
> If you have introduced a breaking bug in a release you have 2 options:

> > * If you have a fix immediately ready, commit and push it (or merge it via a pull request) to the release branch

Reviewer 2: release branch as in `release` or does his mean `master`?

Author: This means any of the release branches
`['+([0-9])?(.{+([0-9]),x}).x', 'master', 'next', 'next-major', {name: 'beta', prerelease: true}, {name: 'alpha', prerelease: true}]`
https://github.com/semantic-release/semantic-release/blob/916c2685c57f3490fb1e50afbf72ea8dce11e188/docs/usage/configuration.md#branches

- Start Date: 2019-11-28

> 

Reviewer 3: Maybe add a TOC here?
```markdown
# Table of contents

- [Summary](#summary)
- [Basic example](#basic-example)
- [Motivation](#motivation)
- [Detailed design](#detailed-design)
  - [Subject](#subject)
  - [Body](#body)
  - [Footer](#footer)
  - [Reverting a Release](#reverting-a-release)
  - [Release Notes](#release-notes)
  - [Maintenance Releases](#maintenance-releases)
- [Drawbacks](#drawbacks)
- [Alternatives](#alternatives)
- [Adoption strategy](#adoption-strategy)
- [How we teach this](#how-we-teach-this)
  - [Learning Git](#learning-git)
    - [Atomic Commits](#atomic-commits)
      - [Don’t push your work until you’re happy with it](#dont-push-your-work-until-youre-happy-with-it)
      - [Examples](#examples)
```

Author: Added in eccfc511dc6ef008b96aad63f4f6af2461eece42

# Summary

We, the Carbon team, want to move to a continuous delivery approach. We have identified [`semantic-release`](https://github.com/semantic-release/semantic-release) as a suitable
choice.

# Basic example

https://semantic-release.gitbook.io/semantic-release/

# Motivation

The number of changes included between `v8` and `v9` were substantial. It has become difficult for users to upgrade due
to the number of changes. This is due to not releasing fast enough for the throughput of the team.

> We want to release faster so users can receive features faster and make small incremental upgrades. This will make

Reviewer 3: Maybe this would clarify what we mean?
```suggestion
We want to release more frequently, so users can receive features faster and make small incremental upgrades. This will make
```

>
> The commit message should be structured as follows:
> ```
><type>[optional scope]: <description>
>
>[optional body]
>
>[optional footer(s)]
>```
> The commit contains the following structural elements, to communicate intent to the consumers of your library:
>
> 1. **fix:** a commit of the *type* `fix` patches a bug in your codebase (this correlates with [`PATCH`](https://semver.org/) in semantic versioning).
> 1. **feat:** a commit of the *type* `feat` introduces a new feature to the codebase (this correlates with [`MINOR`](https://semver.org/) in semantic versioning).
> 1. **BREAKING CHANGE:** a commit that has a footer `BREAKING CHANGE:`, or appends a `!` after the type/scope, introduces a breaking API change (correlating with [`MAJOR`](https://semver.org/) in semantic versioning). A BREAKING CHANGE can be part of commits of any *type*.

> > 1. *types* other than `fix:` and `feat:` are allowed, for example [`@commitlint/config-conventional`](https://github.com/conventional-changelog/commitlint/tree/master/%40commitlint/config-conventional) (based on the the [Angular convention](https://github.com/angular/angular/blob/22b96b9/CONTRIBUTING.md#-commit-message-guidelines)) recommends `build:`, `chore:`, `ci:`, `docs:`, `style:`, `refactor:`, `perf:`, `test:`, and others.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
> 1. *types* other than `fix:` and `feat:` are allowed. For example, [`@commitlint/config-conventional`](https://github.com/conventional-changelog/commitlint/tree/master/%40commitlint/config-conventional) (based on the the [Angular convention](https://github.com/angular/angular/blob/22b96b9/CONTRIBUTING.md#-commit-message-guidelines)) recommends `build:`, `chore:`, `ci:`, `docs:`, `style:`, `refactor:`, `perf:`, `test:`, and others.
```

Author: This is quoted, I would like to keep the original formatting.

> 1. footers other than `BREAKING CHANGE: <description> `may be provided and follow a convention similar to [git trailer format](https://git-scm.com/docs/git-interpret-trailers).
>

> > Additional types are not mandated by the conventional commits specification, and have no implicit effect in semantic versioning (unless they include a BREAKING CHANGE).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
> Additional types are not mandated by the Conventional Commits specification, and have no implicit effect in semantic versioning (unless they include a BREAKING CHANGE).
```

Author: This is quoted, I would like to keep the original formatting.

>

> > A scope may be provided to a commit’s type, to provide additional contextual information and is contained within parenthesis, e.g., `feat(parser): add ability to parse arrays`.  

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
> A scope may be provided to a commit’s type (to provide additional contextual information) and must be contained within parentheses. For example: `feat(parser): add ability to parse arrays`.
```

Author: This is quoted, I would like to keep the original formatting.

> [[Source]](https://www.conventionalcommits.org/en/v1.0.0/)

> ## Subject
> The subject contains a succinct description of the change:
>
> * use the imperative, present tense: "change" not "changed" nor "changes"

> > * don't capitalize the first letter

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
> * don't capitalise the first letter
```

Author: This is quoted, I would like to keep the original formatting.

Reviewer 3: OK :thumbsup:

> * no dot (.) at the end
> ## Body

> > Just as in the *subject*, use the imperative, present tense: "change" not "changed" nor "changes". The body should include the motivation for the change and contrast this with previous behavior.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
> Just as in the *subject*, use the imperative, present tense: "change" not "changed" nor "changes". The body should include the motivation for the change and contrast this with previous behaviour.
```

Author: This is quoted, I would like to keep the original formatting.

Reviewer 3: OK :thumbsup:

>
> ## Footer
> The footer should contain any information about **Breaking Changes** and is also the place to reference GitHub issues that this commit **Closes**.
>

> > **Breaking Changes** should start with the word `BREAKING CHANGE:` with a space or two newlines. The rest of the commit message is then used for this.  

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
> **Breaking Changes** should start with the text `BREAKING CHANGE:` followed by either a space or two newlines. The rest of the commit message is then used to describe the breaking changes.  
```

> [[Source]](https://github.com/angular/angular/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md#commit)

We will use [`commitlint`](https://github.com/conventional-changelog/commitlint) and [`husky`](https://github.com/typicode/husky) to check our commits against the `conventionalcommits` guidelines.
- [`husky`](https://github.com/typicode/husky) will manage the git commit hooks defined in `package.json`
- we will write a hook that runs the commit message via [`commitlint`](https://github.com/conventional-changelog/commitlint)
- we will use the [`@commitlint/config-conventional`](https://github.com/conventional-changelog/commitlint/tree/master/%40commitlint/config-conventional) config

> - [`husky`](https://github.com/typicode/husky) will abort the commit if the commit message is in the wrong format

Reviewer 3: If the user has spent some time drafting a detailed commit message, is there a risk that their drafted message could be lost if `husky` aborts the commit if the user made a mistake in the formatting?

Author: When using `commitizen` the user can use `npm run commit -- --retry` to re-use the last commit message. I'll mention this in the RFC.

Author: Addressed in 00cd9bcc3d25b212ab84801642bbb80f3bf085be

We will use [`commitizen`](https://github.com/commitizen/cz-cli) to help write commit messages
- we will use the [`cz-conventional-changelog`](https://github.com/commitizen/cz-conventional-changelog) config
- users can choose to write commit messages with the regular `git` CLI or in their IDE still
- users can launch [`commitizen`](https://github.com/commitizen/cz-cli) with `npm run commit`

We will add [`probot/semantic-pull-requests`](https://probot.github.io/apps/semantic-pull-requests/) as a GitHub check.
This will prevent PR's being merged that do not follow the correct syntax.

## Reverting a Release
> If you have introduced a breaking bug in a release you have 2 options:
> * If you have a fix immediately ready, commit and push it (or merge it via a pull request) to the release branch
> * Otherwise, [revert the commit](https://git-scm.com/docs/git-revert) that introduced the bug and push the revert commit (or merge it via a pull request) to the release branch  
> 
> In both cases **semantic-release** will publish a new release, so your package users will get the fixed/reverted version.
>

> > Depending on the package manager you are using, you might be able to un-publish or deprecate a release, in order to prevent users from downloading it by accident. For example, [NPM](https://www.npmjs.com/) allows you to [un-publish](https://docs.npmjs.com/cli/unpublish) [within 72 hours](https://www.npmjs.com/policies/unpublish) after release. You may also [deprecate](https://docs.npmjs.com/cli/deprecate) a release if you would rather avoid un-publishing.

Reviewer 3: I'm not sure we want to suggest the option of unpublishing. If a user has immediately upgraded to a newly-published version of Carbon, then that version will be locked in their `package-lock.json` file, with the associated `resolved` URL (registry.npmjs.org) and `integrity` SHA512 hash of that version. If we subsequently unpublish that version, then I think `npm install` will crash with a `404 Not Found` error.

In my opinion, the option of unpublishing should only be used in extreme circumstances (such as accidentally publishing confidential data within the package, which must be permanently removed from public access).

Author: I've taken this paragraph verbatim from `semantic-release`. I'd like to leave this in here because it provides detail about removing git tags.

>
> In any case **do not remove the Git tag associated with the buggy version**, otherwise **semantic-release** will later try to republish that version. Publishing a version after un-publishing is not supported by most package managers.  
> [[Source]](https://semantic-release.gitbook.io/semantic-release/support/faq#how-can-i-revert-a-release)

## Release Notes

In version 4.3.0 we introduced [`renogen`](https://github.com/DDAZZA/renogen) a ruby gem to allow us to write release notes as a collection of changes. Prior

> to this I believe they were written and updated by each collaborator.

Reviewer 3: I think this is how it used to be done:
```suggestion
to this, the release notes were written and updated by each collaborator manually in the old `CHANGELOG.md` file.
```
For reference, see the blame of the old `CHANGELOG.md` file:

* https://github.com/Sage/carbon/blame/v4.2.0/CHANGELOG.md

> [`semantic-release`](https://github.com/semantic-release/semantic-release) has a package called [`@semantic-release/changelog`](https://github.com/semantic-release/changelog) when used in conjunction with [`@semantic-release/git`](https://github.com/semantic-release/git) and

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
[`semantic-release`](https://github.com/semantic-release/semantic-release) has a package called [`@semantic-release/changelog`](https://github.com/semantic-release/changelog). When used in conjunction with [`@semantic-release/git`](https://github.com/semantic-release/git) and
```

[`@semantic-release/npm`](https://github.com/semantic-release/npm) it will maintain a changelog that is committed to git and published to [NPM](https://www.npmjs.com/). We will use this to help

> communicate the features that each release brings. The changelog will include the `TYPE`, `SCOPE` and `DESCRIPTION`, it

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
communicate the features included in each release. The changelog will include the `TYPE`, `SCOPE` and `DESCRIPTION` from the commit messages. It
```

will not include the `BODY` but it will include a link to the relevant pull request.

## Maintenance Releases
The beta version of [`semantic-release`](https://github.com/semantic-release/semantic-release) includes extensive support for publishing a maintenance

> release. There is a [detailed walk through](https://github.com/semantic-release/semantic-release/blob/916c2685c57f3490fb1e50afbf72ea8dce11e188/docs/recipes/maintenance-releases.md)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
release. There is a [detailed walk through](https://github.com/semantic-release/semantic-release/blob/v16.0.0-beta.43/docs/recipes/maintenance-releases.md)
```

outlining many scenarios.

This functionality is not available in the latest stable release, however the beta has been evolving for in excess of a year.

# Drawbacks
- There is a learning curve to this new process
- Version numbers will increase substantially if we don't plan our interfaces carefully to prevent breaking changes. I
don't consider this to be a drawback, but we need to be aware about breaking changes. Previously we have bundled many
breaking changes into one release.
- Changelog format will change

# Alternatives
There are alternatives to [`semantic-release`](https://github.com/semantic-release/semantic-release) for automating the

> release process such as [np](https://github.com/sindresorhus/np)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
release process, such as [`np`](https://github.com/sindresorhus/np).
```

> However, I could find no other solution that parses commits to work out the version number. This means that someone has

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
However, there are no other known existing solutions for parsing commit messages to determine the next release's version number. This means someone has
```

to be involved in the release process to determine the version number. This is not sustainable and prone to errors.

# Adoption strategy

> This RFC PR includes all changes necessary, if this RFC is accepted when it is merged it will immediately start

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This RFC PR includes all necessary changes. If and when this RFC is accepted and merged, it will immediately start
```

releasing from the following branches `['+([0-9])?(.{+([0-9]),x}).x', 'master', 'next', 'next-major', {name: 'beta', prerelease: true}, {name: 'alpha', prerelease: true}]`  

> [[Source]](https://github.com/semantic-release/semantic-release/blob/916c2685c57f3490fb1e50afbf72ea8dce11e188/docs/usage/configuration.md#branches)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
[[Source]](https://github.com/semantic-release/semantic-release/blob/v16.0.0-beta.43/docs/usage/configuration.md#branches)
```

> [[Source]](https://github.com/semantic-release/semantic-release/blob/916c2685c57f3490fb1e50afbf72ea8dce11e188/docs/usage/configuration.md#branches)

Reviewer 3: I think we should also link to this documentation:

* https://github.com/semantic-release/semantic-release/blob/v16.0.0-beta.43/docs/usage/workflow-configuration.md#branches-properties

Author: added in 2d883599e

Adding [`probot/semantic-pull-requests`](https://probot.github.io/apps/semantic-pull-requests/) is a manual step and
will have to be performed by a workspace administrator.

# How we teach this

> The proposed tooling is well established in the JavaScript community. For carbon developers

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The proposed tooling is well established in the JavaScript community. For Carbon, developers
```

 can use `npm run commit` to launch [`commitizen`](https://github.com/commitizen/cz-cli) which will guide them through the process.

> ![](./commitizen.svg)

Reviewer 3: This SVG doesn't seem to be rendering here:

* https://github.com/Sage/carbon/blob/semantic-release/rfcs/text/semantic-release.md#how-we-teach-this

GitHub may not understand the `./` in the filepath. Maybe this would work:
```suggestion
![](rfcs/text/semantic-release/commitizen.svg)
```

Author: It doesn't work at the review stage but it will once committed. I tested on a private repo first.

> | Type           | Description                                                                                                 | Release Type |

Reviewer 3: Should we include a link to the source of these types? For example:

* https://github.com/angular/angular/blob/8.2.14/CONTRIBUTING.md#type

Author: These types were actually extracted from https://github.com/commitizen/conventional-commit-types as it deviates from the angular convention. In particular, it allows `chore` which angular no longer allows. It also allows the default `git revert snytax`.

Author: Fixed in e5d73c8bb672e0cf16b5a8ea8b7ba04b269dcb8b

| `docs:`        | Documentation only changes                                                                                  | :x:          |
| `style:`       | Changes that do not affect the meaning of the code (white-space, formatting, missing semi-colons, etc)      | :x:          |
| `refactor:`    | A code change that neither fixes a bug nor adds a feature                                                   | :x:          |
| `perf:`        | A code change that improves performance                                                                     | patch        |
| `test:`        | Adding missing tests or correcting existing tests                                                           | :x:          |
| `build:`       | Changes that affect the build system or external dependencies (example scopes: gulp, broccoli, npm)         | :x:          |
| `ci:`          | Changes to our CI configuration files and scripts (example scopes: Travis, Circle, BrowserStack, SauceLabs) | :x:          |
| `chore:`       | Other changes that don't modify src or test files                                                           | :x:          |

> | `revert:`      | Reverts a previous commit                                                                                   | patch        |

Reviewer 3: For `revert:`, doesn't the Release Type depend on what's being reverted? For example, if we're reverting a new feature, wouldn't the Release Type be `minor` instead of `patch`?

Author: `@semantic-release/commit-analyzer` bumps these to `patch` it doesn't have the level of granularity to distinguish what we are reverting. It detects `revert` and `BREAKING CHANGE` so it could trigger `patch` or `major` but not `minor`.

Author: Clarified in e4c8f4231c307eb7d55f79604034dbed8a45ad4d

> This behaviour is defined in [@semantic-release/commit-analyzer](https://github.com/semantic-release/commit-analyzer/blob/95a21dc7b09b7bff753d3d4a00e684b69a81df8c/lib/default-release-rules.js).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This behaviour is defined in [@semantic-release/commit-analyzer](https://github.com/semantic-release/commit-analyzer/blob/v7.0.0-beta.7/lib/default-release-rules.js).
```

Author: Because tags can change I would like to keep this pointing at the specific commit.

Please note that `improvement:` is **not** supported, there is an [open pull request](https://github.com/commitizen/conventional-commit-types/pull/16) to remove it from [`commitizen`](https://github.com/commitizen/cz-cli).

> If we use [`git revert`](https://git-scm.com/docs/git-revert) we will use the [`--no-commit`](https://git-scm.com/docs/git-revert#Documentation/git-revert.txt---no-commit) flag if we're reverting a `BREAKING CHANGE` because this would also be a breaking change, or, if we're reverting a new feature. We will then use `commitizen` to write a commit that includes a reference to the `BREAKING CHANGE`.

Reviewer 3: When using `git revert`, wouldn't we **always** want to use the `--no-commit` flag? (If we don't use that flag, then `git revert` will auto-generate a commit message, which won't follow the Conventional Commits spec.)

Would this be better?
```suggestion
If we use [`git revert`](https://git-scm.com/docs/git-revert), we will use the [`--no-commit`](https://git-scm.com/docs/git-revert#Documentation/git-revert.txt---no-commit) flag (to prevent auto-generation of a commit message) and then use `commitizen` to write the commit message.
```

eg.
> revert(decimal): remove on change handler 
>

> > The on change hander was implemented incorrectly and caused major regressions.  

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
> The on change handler was implemented incorrectly and caused major regressions.  
```

> We're reverting this commit in favour of PR #1.
>
> This commit reverts #abcdef  
> - feat(decimal): add on change handler
>
>BREAKING CHANGE: decimal onChange prop has been removed

## Learning Git

It's important that developers have a good working knowledge of Git. Here are a collection of resources that I have

> personally used:

Reviewer 3: ```diff
- Here are a collection of resources that I have personally used:
+ Here are some recommended resources:
```

- [Atlassian Tutorials](https://www.atlassian.com/git/tutorials/what-is-version-control)
- [Pro Git Book](https://git-scm.com/book/en/v2)
- [Learn Git Branching](https://learngitbranching.js.org/)
- [GitHub Labs](https://lab.github.com/)

### Atomic Commits

> an atomic commit is an operation that applies a set of distinct changes as a single operation  
> [[Source]](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Atomic_commit) 

Atomic commits help us create frequent small releases. It makes code review and cherry-picking/reverting commits easier.

> Writing an atomic commits may mean re-writing your **local** history before making a PR. I recommend reading both

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Writing atomic commits may mean re-writing your **local** history before making a PR. It's worth reading both
```

[Atlassian rewriting history](https://www.atlassian.com/git/tutorials/rewriting-history) and [Git book rewriting history](https://git-scm.com/book/en/v2/Git-Tools-Rewriting-History).

> #### Don’t push your work until you’re happy with it
> One of the cardinal rules of Git is that, since so much work is local within your clone, you have a great deal of freedom to rewrite your history **locally**. However, once you push your work, it is a different story entirely, and you should consider pushed work as final unless you have good reason to change it. In short, you should avoid pushing your work until you’re happy with it and ready to share it with the rest of the world.  
> [[Source]](https://git-scm.com/book/en/v2/Git-Tools-Rewriting-History)

> > So, before you run git rebase, always ask yourself, “Is anyone else looking at this branch?” If the answer is yes, take your hands off the keyboard and start thinking about a non-destructive way to make your changes (e.g., the git revert command). Otherwise, you’re safe to re-write history as much as you like.  

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
> So, before you run `git rebase`, always ask yourself, “Is anyone else looking at this branch?” If the answer is yes, take your hands off the keyboard and start thinking about a non-destructive way to make your changes (e.g., the `git revert` command). Otherwise, you’re safe to re-write history as much as you like.  
```

> > [[Source]](https://www.atlassian.com/git/articles/git-team-workflows-merge-or-rebase)

Reviewer 3: I couldn't find that quote in that article. This looks like the correct article:
```suggestion
> [[Source]](https://www.atlassian.com/git/tutorials/merging-vs-rebasing)
```

**IMPORTANT**

> We want to avoid FF merges because it reduces the traceability of changes. So it's important that you re-write your history locally before creating a PR.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
We want to avoid [fast-forward merges](https://git-scm.com/docs/git-merge#_fast_forward_merge), because they reduce the traceability of changes. So it's important that you re-write your history locally before creating a PR.
```

> > Pull requests are merged using the --no-ff option, except for pull requests with squashed or rebased commits, which are merged using the fast-forward option.

Reviewer 3: Copying the formatting and links from the source article:
```suggestion
> Pull requests are merged using [the `--no-ff` option](https://git-scm.com/docs/git-merge#_fast_forward_merge), except for [pull requests with squashed or rebased commits](https://help.github.com/en/articles/about-pull-request-merges), which are merged using the fast-forward option.
```

> [[Source]](https://help.github.com/en/github/collaborating-with-issues-and-pull-requests/merging-a-pull-request)

#### Examples

> JIRA Ticket 1  
> Add keyboard support to all components
> 
> Bad:  
> feat: add keyboard support to all components
>
> Good:  
> feat(decimal): add keyboard support  
> feat(textbox): add keyboard support  

> > feat(textarea): add keyboard support

Reviewer 3: > Bad commit:
> - feat: add keyboard support to all components
>
> Good commits:
> - feat(decimal): add keyboard support  
> - feat(textbox): add keyboard support  
> - feat(textarea): add keyboard support

> In this example, we have broken the work into atomic commits, each of these could be `cherry-picked` or `revert`ed

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
In this example, we have broken the work into atomic commits, each of which can be [`cherry-pick`](https://git-scm.com/docs/git-cherry-pick)ed or [`revert`](https://git-scm.com/docs/git-revert)ed
```

without affecting another component.

> JIRA Ticket 2  
> fix keyboard and update styling
> 
> Bad:  
> feat: add keyboard support to all components
>
> Good:  
> fix(decimal): allow user to enter decimal separator  
> feat(decimal): style the input blue  

> > feat(textarea): style the input blue

Reviewer 3: > Bad commit:
> - feat: add keyboard support to all components
>
> Good commits:
> - fix(decimal): allow user to enter decimal separator  
> - feat(decimal): style the input blue  
> - feat(textarea): style the input blue

In this example we have created on PR with both fixes and features. This would trigger one `minor` release when merged.

> Better:  
> PR1 fix(decimal): allow user to enter decimal separator  
> PR2 feat(decimal): style the input blue  

> > PR2 feat(textarea): style the input blue

Reviewer 3: > Better commits:
> - PR 1:
>   - fix(decimal): allow user to enter decimal separator  
> - PR 2:
>   - feat(decimal): style the input blue  
>   - feat(textarea): style the input blue

As the bug fix in decimal is unrelated to the styling of the components, we could also create two pull requests.
This would result in one `patch` release for the decimal bug fix and one `minor` release for the new styling.

When tickets are going through QA it's possible that you will need to add more commits to your PR

> this should follow the same philosophy. e.g.

Reviewer 3: ```diff
- When tickets are going through QA it's possible that you will need to add more commits to your PR this should follow the same philosophy. e.g.
+ When tickets are going through QA it's possible that you will need to add more commits to your PR. This should follow the same philosophy. e.g.
```
